# Bootstrapping
## A virus for the capitalism immune system

### Layout of the land
Capitalism uses money to ensure its control. Money is injected deep within every human interaction. To the point you can not have food or a roof on your head without money.

Anticapitalists usually try to abolish the rule of money by attempting to form societies that work without money. These attempts hardly achieve noticeable success because the outside overwhelming environment requires money for interactions. And even if these projects get any momentum, they will immediately face state push backs by introducing new laws that basically attempt to bind these communities to money one way or another.

Another important aspect of capitalist rule is the centralized pyramid structure it enforces using laws. Every economic activity "must" have a "legal" representative. These legal representatives are then provided with full power over the money and in the same time the full authority and subjectivity to the law. This imposes a high power and high pressure to the few representatives which sooner or later pushes them towards curroption. This is how the curroption in the capitalist state preseves itself.

To sum it up, in a capitalist state, money is equal to power. And through a hierarchical structure thant ensures curroption, the power is entitled to few. These few powerful people who are already disconnected from humane common sense, are trapped in a vicious cycle of hunger for power that naturally creates misery and destroys the planet.

### The cracks in the pyramid
Capitalist corporations also lack performance in comparison to what a fair economic cooperation can achieve. There are two aspects to this: the lack of information and the lack of motivation.

Capitalist shareholders spend so much energy just to control the flow of information in their own organization. They tend to provide as little information as possible. And that is to minimize the risk of different forms of employee dissent. In turn, the employees are disconnected from the effects of what they do. Good decision making also requires maximum possible input of information and feedback. The feedback flow of information is also cluttered because the employees are basically afraid of their employers.

The lack of motivation is caused due to the fact that the employees are employees! They are paid a minimum wage. They have minimum freedom for creativity and decision making. They are replaceable and hence can never really care about the busisness. Seeing how their employers are enjoying their life while they are struggling can only reduce their interest in their quality of work. The fact that companies like Google try to give as much autonomy to their employees speaks to the fact that they are aware of it are trying to somehow make up for it.

Finally, in evey day of their lives, people are made to choose between what benefits them and what their good hearts tell them to do: help someone in need, or keep it to myself. So no matter what you do, you always feel something is missing. Introducing an alternative that can combine the two (meaning by helping others you are directly helping yourself), and free the flow of information with make for such a cooperation that can face with the powerful corporations and beat them in market competition.

### The coalescence
The capitalist constant effort to reduce wages, have created a population that is not greedy anymore and is statisfied by the promise of a comfortable life. The fear of going hungry always motivates them to grab as much as they can, but this should be countered by utmost transparency and trust and honest promise of kinship.

We create a normal company with a usual business model that aimes to make money. With the difference that it has no shareholders. The company prmoises a good quality of life for every team member. Say ten thousand dollars per month for everyone. Such a company, given it can be created, can beat the completition in a heartbeat. The team members already have a comfortable life and have no reason do to their job but to enjoy it. There is also no competition among team members as this does not affect their livelihood so the only motivation towards others is helping them. There will also be a free flow of information since there is no reason to hold back. In the meantime there will be a big demand to join such a company which creates to forms of opportunities: first, the company can be selective about working with the best. second, overflow of income can directly be used to expand the company and the business. Also since the company is not aiming to make billions for its shareholders, it means that it can go for very low service prices. For example a service like Airbnb could still make enough money for thousands of employees if their changed their service fees from 30% to 1%.

All of this means that we will have an ever growing company which is also powerful in the capitalist realm because it generates a lot of income. This powerful growing body (the process of coalescence) can not be stopped, similar initiatives will start to form all around the world, and will devour old world corporations to the point none of them is left. Due to the transparency of information and the lack of motivation to exploit others, the coalesced body will naturally tend to heal the environment. This process in a global scale redistributes the wealth in a uniform manner and awar from greed. Which will end up empowering everyone in the planet and end up not needing the definition of money anymore.

About how to form such a company, as discussed before, the capitalist state enforces a few in the position of power to be curropted. This can be countered using the smart contracts from the blockchain technology. The blockchain technology disarms the state and everyone for that matter to change the rules of the game. And the contracts define the game. And money, the currency of the blockchain, defines the power. It is absolutely critical that the income of the company is received from its clients in the form of cryptocurrency. This money will go directly into a smart contract that governs who the money can go to and how much. With the employment of this smart contract we make sure that the decision making for the money can only be made in a decentralized manner and it is not controlled by a single person. Hence, even if the state decides to punish the people who are legally responsible, it can not stop the company as its flow of money is unharmed. Meanwhile pressuring or curropting those people is futile since they are powerless to begin with. The makes the company unstopable no matter what, and as long as the product is enticing for the consumers it will live on.

It then boils down to the rules that are put into the smart contract. There are two critical points of power in this company: who decides what happens to the money? who decided who can join the company (or gets kicked out of it)? Vitalik Buterin created Ethereum with the vision that someday it supports a fair government. The attempt at this smart contract is equal to providing a solution to the humanity's historic struggle. We want expert and bright people to make the decisions, but we also want everyone involved in the process of decision making. The solution proposed here is a hierarchy of teams that have equal power between their team members. It starts with a single person that starts something and makes all the decisions for what they does. Then this person decides they can use the help of some others. Hence, they adds them as their team members. From now on, these team members have equal voting power in what happens to the money and who can join or leave the team. Later on, the amount of work increases and one of the team members realizes that they need a team to perform the load of reponsibilities. So that one team member replaces itself with a team they have gathered. This new team elect with equal voting power, who represents them in the mother team. This model can grow to form a full democratic planetary government. Each team have full autonomy over who they work with and what decisions they make. The combination of these teams cover all the aspects of concern. In an overview, the greater decisions are made by the mother groups but the power lies in the child groups. To grasb this dynamic requires some pondering as it requires something similar to the game theory analysis.

The biggest struggle to kick start such a company is only its beginning. A project should be started and nurtured to the point of being self sufficient while not getting any financial support from capitalist investors in a very competitive capitalist market. There are other challenges like finding people who understand the idea that can form the seed team but it is much easier to overcome than the first one. The right project to start the business should be identified. A project related to tech would be a good idea as it can easily scale and people in tech usually make a lot of money and hence can spare sometime to spend on a project that probably requires about a year of work before it can support its team. It would also be best to start with a b2b (business to business) idea as the marketing would be much easier and cheaper. Other ideas that can help find the project is considering the market requirments. Which group of people are hurting most from the capitalist profitering tech services? Which one of those groups are more tightly bound together or have a community which will help us introduce the project and help with the market adoption? The writer of this essay is currently madly clutching to any project opoprtunities they encounters!

### Humanity's greatest threat
The capitalism is not a stable model that can preserve itself. Or any other model that centralizes the power for that matter. Over time the power grab progresses until the crack between the wealthy and the poor is so wide, and the few become so few, that the system cracks down on itself and a redistribution of wealth and power takes place. This pattern has repeated itself probably hundreds of times through monarchies, imperialisms and now capitalism. The concerning question however is, when is it going to stop?

The capitalist propaganda (getting smarter everyday using big data) is ruthlessly trying to reduce public expectations by introducing one crsis after another as the cultprits of the constantly reducing global welfare. My greatest concern is that they succeed in this quest and we end up with a population in a constant state of fear that are fighting for mere survival and think the cause of their misery are the laws of nature they can not fight.

It seems to me, that we are in a race against a closing window of hope. And we have to act quickly to introduce an alternative beautiful way of life to the public before living in peace and happiness is considered a childish fantasy.


### Footnotes
- The coalescence in intself should not be a stable and/or a good enough model. For example what happens to people who are not able to work? For the retired members it can be worked out they they also get an income but it is very unstable. I believe the existence of any form of currency should be abolished altogether. The coalescence model is meant as a solution to overcome capitalism can give a taste of liberty to people so that they can want more. And in a next stage, the population can decide to just take care of each other and all living things and the planet, without measuring any form of contribution as a gateway to access the resources.
- Some aspects of the coalescence model need polishing. Things like what happens to the excess income or can a person be a member in multiple groups and how does it fit in the details? The starting team are also very important because if it is started by a greedy team, they might end up abondoning the dream before it can start to expand.
- The starting project will probably still need some financial support. Even though the tech specialists can maintain a free time to further the project, lower income roles that are required might suffer from the lack of finding voluntary participants.
- There should not be a concern about cyrpto currencies becoming illegal since the corporations are also moving towards them to further their tyranny against even the central governments. There are also forms of stable crypto currencies which keep their value stable relative to a FIAT currency.
- To make the company invulnerable to outside attacks (like seizure of the product domain name), it is important that the softwre is created open source and that the client base are introduced to some extend to the mission.